README.md, before:

# Zi
![Zi Lib CTests](https://github.com/wjrforcyber/Zi/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)

## Introduction
C Zi library, named after "子鼠", is designed for the Synthesis and Verification Libraries of Zodiac Program.

Zi contains some of the basic data structures implemented in C, which will help algorithm implementation become easier.

> [!WARNING]
> This work is still in its early stage and designed for my own needs. Some datatype may not even be supported, if so, report an issue.

> [!CAUTION]
> Sanitize check is turned on, if mem error/leak exists, PR won't be accepted.

## Structure
The project uses `CMake` with `CTest`.

## Build
```
mkdir build
cmake ..
make
make test
```

## Example
Some usage of the library will be shown here to give a minimum reproduceable example([MRE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimal_reproducible_example)), there's no proper documentation right now, if detailed usage example of the interface is needed, you check the interface test in `test` folder.
### Array
Simple array reconstruct.
### Matrix
Matirx can be read from a string, every row of the matrix is wrapped by $[$ and $]$, when reading a matrix, no need to worry about the space between numbers, it will be automatically normalized. 

### Semi-tensor product

```C
#include "matrix.h"

int main()
{
    matrix test0;
    matrix* mI0 = &test0;

    matrix test1;
    matrix* mI1 = &test1;

    matrix testRes;
    matrix* mRes = &testRes;

    char mS0[100] = "[[1,0,0,0],[0,1,1,1]]";
    char mS1[100] = "[[1,1,0,1],[0,0,1,0]]";
    //Result "[[1,0,1,0,0,0,1,0],[0,1,0,1,1,1,0,1]]";
    readMatrix(mI0, mS0);
    readMatrix(mI1, mS1);
    matrix* res = stpMatrix(mI0, mI1);
    showDigitsMatrix(res);
    clearMatrix(mI0);
    clearMatrix(mI1);
    clearMatrix(res);
    free(res);
}
```
The result will be
```bash
Matrix contains:
[
[ 1, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0 ],
[ 0, 1, 0, 1, 1, 1, 0, 1 ]
]
```

### Boolean operator
Given basic boolean logic **_TRUE_** 
```math
\begin{bmatrix} 1 \cr 0 \end{bmatrix}
```
and **_FALSE_** 
```math
\begin{bmatrix} 0 \cr 1 \end{bmatrix}
```
.
#### NOT
Given truth table 
```math
\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 & 1 & 1 \end{bmatrix}
```
, apply the **_NOT_** operator 
```math
\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix}
```
will result in 
```math
\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 & 1 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 \end{bmatrix}
```
.
```C
#include "matrix.h"

int main()
{
    matrix test0;
    matrix* mI0 = &test0;
    char mS0[100] = "[[1,0,0,0],[0,1,1,1]]";
    //NOT should have "[[0,1,1,1],[1,0,0,0]]";
    assert(readMatrix(mI0, mS0) == 0);
    matrix *not = notMatrix();
    matrix *res = stpMatrix(not, mI0);
    showDigitsMatrix(res);
    clearMatrix(mI0);
    clearMatrix(res);
    free(res);
    clearMatrix(not);
    free(not);
    return 0;
}
```
```bash
Matrix contains:
[
[ 0, 1, 1, 1 ],
[ 1, 0, 0, 0 ]
]
```
#### AND
According to $a \ \sigma \ b = M_\sigma \ a \ b$, given boolean definition of **_AND_** 
```math
\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 & 1 & 1 \end{bmatrix}
```
, and truth value of variable $a$ (**_TURE_**), $b$ (**_FALSE_**), apply **_AND_** to $a$, $b$, will result in **_FALSE_**.

Note that the **_AND_** matrix could be generalized to support $n$ variables.

```C
#include "matrix.h"

int main()
{
    matrix test0;
    matrix* mI0 = &test0;
    matrix test1;
    matrix* mI1 = &test1;
    //f_tt0 = [[1],[0]] True
    char tt0[100] = "[[1],[0]]";
    //f_tt1 = [[0],[1]] False
    char tt1[100] = "[[0],[1]]";
    readMatrix(mI0, tt0);
    readMatrix(mI1, tt1);
    matrix *and = andNMatrix(2);
    matrix *kPro_and_a = stpMatrix(and, mI0);
    matrix *res_and_a_b = stpMatrix(kPro_and_a, mI1);
    showDigitsMatrix(res_and_a_b);
    clearMatrix(mI0);
    clearMatrix(mI1);
    clearMatrix(and);
    free(and);
    clearMatrix(kPro_and_a);
    free(kPro_and_a);
    clearMatrix(res_and_a_b);
    free(res_and_a_b);
    return 0;
}
```
```
Matrix contains:
[
[ 0 ],
[ 1 ]
]
```

## Contribution 
Contribution is welcome but should illustrate three sections: Why, What and How before the review.

Commit message:

Refactor(README): Operators
Signed-off-by: JingrenWang <wjrforcyber@163.com>

README.md, after:

# Zi
![Zi Lib CTests](https://github.com/wjrforcyber/Zi/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)

## Introduction
C Zi library, named after "子鼠", is designed for the Synthesis and Verification Libraries of Zodiac Program.

Zi contains some of the basic data structures implemented in C, which will help algorithm implementation become easier.

> [!WARNING]
> This work is still in its early stage and designed for my own needs. Some datatype may not even be supported, if so, report an issue.

> [!CAUTION]
> Sanitize check is turned on, if mem error/leak exists, PR won't be accepted.

## Structure
The project uses `CMake` with `CTest`.

## Build
```
mkdir build
cmake ..
make
make test
```

## Example
Some usage of the library will be shown here to give a minimum reproduceable example([MRE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimal_reproducible_example)), there's no proper documentation right now, if detailed usage example of the interface is needed, you could check the interface test in `test` folder.
### Array
Simple array reconstruct.
### Matrix
Matirx can be read from a string, every row of the matrix is wrapped by $[$ and $]$, when reading a matrix, no need to worry about the space between numbers, it will be automatically normalized. 

### Semi-tensor product

```C
#include "matrix.h"

int main()
{
    matrix test0;
    matrix* mI0 = &test0;

    matrix test1;
    matrix* mI1 = &test1;

    matrix testRes;
    matrix* mRes = &testRes;

    char mS0[100] = "[[1,0,0,0],[0,1,1,1]]";
    char mS1[100] = "[[1,1,0,1],[0,0,1,0]]";
    //Result "[[1,0,1,0,0,0,1,0],[0,1,0,1,1,1,0,1]]";
    readMatrix(mI0, mS0);
    readMatrix(mI1, mS1);
    matrix* res = stpMatrix(mI0, mI1);
    showDigitsMatrix(res);
    clearMatrix(mI0);
    clearMatrix(mI1);
    clearMatrix(res);
    free(res);
}
```
The result will be
```bash
Matrix contains:
[
[ 1, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0 ],
[ 0, 1, 0, 1, 1, 1, 0, 1 ]
]
```

### Boolean operator
Given basic boolean logic **_TRUE_** 
```math
\begin{bmatrix} 1 \cr 0 \end{bmatrix}
```
and **_FALSE_** 
```math
\begin{bmatrix} 0 \cr 1 \end{bmatrix}
```
.
#### NOT
Given truth table 
```math
\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 & 1 & 1 \end{bmatrix}
```
, apply the **_NOT_** operator 
```math
\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix}
```
will result in 
```math
\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 & 1 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 \end{bmatrix}
```
.
```C
#include "matrix.h"

int main()
{
    matrix test0;
    matrix* mI0 = &test0;
    char mS0[100] = "[[1,0,0,0],[0,1,1,1]]";
    //NOT should have "[[0,1,1,1],[1,0,0,0]]";
    assert(readMatrix(mI0, mS0) == 0);
    matrix *not = notMatrix();
    matrix *res = stpMatrix(not, mI0);
    showDigitsMatrix(res);
    clearMatrix(mI0);
    clearMatrix(res);
    free(res);
    clearMatrix(not);
    free(not);
    return 0;
}
```
```bash
Matrix contains:
[
[ 0, 1, 1, 1 ],
[ 1, 0, 0, 0 ]
]
```
#### AND
According to $a \ \sigma \ b = M_\sigma \ a \ b$, given boolean definition of **_AND_** 
```math
\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 & 1 & 1 \end{bmatrix}
```
, and truth value of variable $a$ (**_TURE_**), $b$ (**_FALSE_**), apply **_AND_** to $a$, $b$, will result in **_FALSE_**.

Note that the **_AND_** matrix could be generalized to support $n$ variables.

```C
#include "matrix.h"

int main()
{
    matrix test0;
    matrix* mI0 = &test0;
    matrix test1;
    matrix* mI1 = &test1;
    //f_tt0 = [[1],[0]] True
    char tt0[100] = "[[1],[0]]";
    //f_tt1 = [[0],[1]] False
    char tt1[100] = "[[0],[1]]";
    readMatrix(mI0, tt0);
    readMatrix(mI1, tt1);
    matrix *and = andNMatrix(2);
    matrix *kPro_and_a = stpMatrix(and, mI0);
    matrix *res_and_a_b = stpMatrix(kPro_and_a, mI1);
    showDigitsMatrix(res_and_a_b);
    clearMatrix(mI0);
    clearMatrix(mI1);
    clearMatrix(and);
    free(and);
    clearMatrix(kPro_and_a);
    free(kPro_and_a);
    clearMatrix(res_and_a_b);
    free(res_and_a_b);
    return 0;
}
```
```
Matrix contains:
[
[ 0 ],
[ 1 ]
]
```

#### Other boolean operators/handy interface
Besides **_AND_**(conjunction) and **_NOT_** operators mentioned above(which is already boolean complete), there are other handy interfaces for boolean algebra, here we only list some main interfaces.
- [x] Get const1/const0 under $n$ variable context <br>`matrix* getConst1(int n)`/`matrix* getConst0(int n)`
- [x] Boolean **_OR_**(Disjunction) operator under $n$ variables context <br>`matrix* orNMatrix(int n)`
- [ ] Implication.
- [x] Equivalence. <br>`matrix* eqMatrix(int n)`
- [x] Show the truth table(matrix) <br>`int showDigitsMatrix(matrix* m0)`

## Contribution 
Contribution is welcome but should illustrate three sections: Why, What and How before the review.
